How to Access Your Wallet
-------------------------

After you have created your wallet, we want to make sure that we can
access this wallet, now and in the future.

If you can successfully unlock your wallet and send MOAC out of the
wallet, you can rest assured that you will have access to any funds you
send to it.

Accessing your Wallet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Navigate to the Send Page.

Select your keystore file or your private key.

If the wallet is encrypted, a text box will automatically appear. Enter
the password.

Click the Unlock Wallet button.

Your wallet information should show up.

Find your account address, next to a colorful, circular icon. This icon
visually represents your address.

If you printed out your wallet, check to be sure the circles match. They
should be the same colors, and shapes. Otherwise, something went wrong
and you should start over.

You can share your address with others so they can send you MOAC. Your
account will not be compromised, just make sure to send them your PUBLIC
wallet address and not your private key.

TIP: If you are planning on holding a large amount of MOAC, we recommend
you send a small amount to test first, before depositing a large amount.

The Future

While we used the Send page to access your wallet this time, it is not
recommended that you do so in the future. You only need your address in
order to see your balance. Do not enter your private key anywhere if you
just want to check the balance or see incoming and outgoing
transactions.

Instead, search your address (or bookmark it) on
http://explorer.moac.io/.

While you are at it, you should bookmark https://www.moacwalletonline/
as well.

MoacWalletOnle is a client-side wallet, which means you hold your own
keys. If someone gets your private key (keystore file, mnemonic,
passwords), they have complete access to your funds. There is no
stopping transactions, canceling transactions, or resetting passwords.
Once a transaction is on the blockchain, it's final.

For this reason, it is very, very important to keep your private key a
secret and use it as rarely as possible. Only enter it on sites after
double-checking to be sure you are on the correct site.
